# Jaccard Similarity

## Theory

- The Jaccard coefficient measures similarity between finite sample sets, and is defined as the size of the intersection divided by the size of the union of the sample sets.
- The Jaccard distance, which measures dissimilarity between sample sets, is complementary to the Jaccard coefficient and is obtained by subtracting the Jaccard coefficient from 1.

- [Egghe, 2010](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/asi.21380?casa_token=qa-sAe4XuUAAAAAA%3A8oWiVD8VGy9z1tLEZEag7V00mq_L3nx-9K-v2rR4fXlLC5_6d62sUOpy8c7ZlTR_B3p3mRrFRuq2L6Lrnw). Good properties of similarity measures and their complementarity. In [Journal Of The American Society For Information Science And Technology](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=21100307484&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - A good property for similarity measures would be that, if we add a constant vector to both vectors, then the similarity must increase. We show that Dice and Jaccard satisfy this property while Cosine and both overlap measures do not. Adding a constant vector is called, in Lorenz concentration theory, “nominal increase” and we show that the stronger “transfer principle” is not a required good property for similarity measures. Another good property is that, when we have two vectors and if we add one of these vectors to both vectors, then the similarity must increase. Now Dice, Jaccard, Cosine, and one of the overlap measures satisfy this property, while the other overlap measure does not. 
- [Costa (2022)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843712200334X?casa_token=0pCsZ7bxcnkAAAAA:66naxyBwQxYSlJKe9R7HIVwVkGQ_C5vmAtrtWQCTHSxZV6EE8pFoiHfssFrzJ0_HGkeyHTJQhWc#section-cited-by). On similarity. In [Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=29115&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - The objective quantification of similarity between two mathematical or physical structures, from scalars to graphs, constitutes a central issue in the physical sciences and technology. In the present work, we develop a principled and systematic approach that adopts the Kronecker delta function of two scalar real values as the prototypical reference for fully strict similarity quantification. We then consider other approaches, namely the cosine similarity, correlation, Sørensen–Dice, and Jaccard indices, and show that they provide successively more strict similarity quantifications.

- The Jaccard coefficient is widely used in computer science, ecology, genomics, and other sciences, where binary or binarized data are used.
- Existen otras variantes del índice:
  - *Weighted Jaccard* similarity and distance generalizes the Jaccard Index to positive vectors, where a set corresponds to a binary vector given by the indicator function.
  - Probability Jaccard similarity and distance generalizes the Jaccard Index to probability distributions, where a set corresponds to a uniform probability distribution. A generalization that is continuous between probability distributions and their corresponding support sets is the *Probability Jaccard*.

## Aplicaciones

#### Economía (y relacionados)

- [Barwick et al. (2021)](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w25873/w25873.pdf). Information, Mobile Communication, and Referral Effects. Later published in [American Economic Review](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=22697&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - We use the universe of de-identified and geocoded cellphone records for 1.8 million individuals from a major Chinese telecommunication provider to examine the role of information exchange in urban labor markets. Information flow, as measured by call volume, correlates strongly with worker flows at different levels of geographic aggregation. Having a referral in a location increases by close to four times the likelihood that a job switcher moves there
  - Notes: this table examines referral estimates’ robustness to homophily. The columns use the same specification as that in Column 2 of Table 4 [Effect of Friends on Job Location Choices] but add more controls for homophily. Column 1 controls for whether the friend at location l (referral friend) has the same gender, age group, birth county, and similar house price as switcher i. Column 2 further adds the share of mutual friends as defined by the Jaccard index between i and the referral friend. It also examines the geographical coverage of i’s friends and referral friend’s friends by including the share of overlapping work neighborhoods (also defined by the Jaccard index) between i’s friends and the referral friend’s friends.
- [Harmon et al. (2019)](https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/26794324.pdf?casa_token=F1gz3BLqkV8AAAAA:Dck74R2UGL55Feuq-Pd15oOeTESqH5q-HxIeqDMmeiFxX_VQH5NaWPvEEjHC3hkmGArYmkIcpV5OPK2dK90tjMVZLzGfgzoKadfJeTyoJ47rn_5kho8H). Peer Effects in Legislative Voting. In [American Economic Journal: Applied Economics](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=19900191767&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - We exploit seating rules in the European Parliament to identify peer effects in legislative voting. Sitting adjacently leads to a 7 percent reduction in the overall likelihood that two members of the European Parliament (MEPs) from the same party differ in their vote. 
  - We present our first set of results on peer effects in Table 4. We begin with our intent-to-treat analysis. In column 1, we report a specification that only includes time fixed effects. The point estimate is −0.0116 and highly significant. To deal with the obvious concern that name adjacency is correlated with party identity or simply picks up name similarity, in column 2, we include EPG-by-EP fixed effects and our baseline set of name similarity controls. Unsurprisingly (given the results from Table 3), the magnitude of the coefficient drops substantially, to −0.0048. The next three columns assess the robustness of this estimate by adding further controls. In column 3, we control for the similarity of each MEP pair in terms of observable predetermined characteristics. In columns 4 and 5, we add additional measures of name similarity to probe whether the baseline set eliminates most of the omitted variable bias. Specifically, in column 4, we add other standard measures of name similarity, including cubic polynomials in the Bigram-Jaccard and Levenshtein measures of similarity, as well as an indicator for whether the MEPs’ names sound alike according to the SoundEx algorithm.
- [Kali et al. (2013)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0304387812000983). Growth networks. In [Journal of Development Economics](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=14834&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - We map the relationship between products in global trade and the products a country exports as a network to devise a measure of the density of links between the products in a country's export basket and a measure of network proximity from a country's export basket to products that a country does not export.
  - In order to examine the overlap between the proximity matrix and country-level product specialization, we first examine the evolution of the connectedness of the proximity matrix over time. For this purpose we use methods developed in the physics literature to detect community structure in networks, meaning the existence of some natural division of the network such that nodes within a group/ sub-network are highly associated (i.e. high proximity) among themselves while having relatively fewer/weaker connections with the rest of the network. In our context, a community of nodes signifies products likely to be exported together, due to synergy and complementarity of various kinds between them. 
  - The partitioning of a network into communities can be done in different ways.
  - To make this comparison clear, as an initial quantitative metric of the extent of change in the proximity matrix we compute the Jaccard index [...].
- [Snijders (2017)](https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/pdf/10.1146/annurev-statistics-060116-054035). Stochastic Actor-Oriented Models for Network Dynamics. In [Annual Review of Statistics and Its Application](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=21100332429&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - This article discusses the stochastic actor-oriented model for analyzing panel data of networks.
  - The crucial issue for network modeling is how to represent dependence structures between network ties. For single (cross-sectional) observations of one network this is very hard, but for longitudinal network data there is at least the arrow of time. The stochastic actor-oriented model is designed for longitudinal network data collected in a panel design, with two or more panel waves. It is a Markov chain model, consisting of a combination of two generalized linear models for the unobserved continuous-time process, but observed only at the times of the panel waves. If change between subsequent waves is not too large, then a strong dependence between the repeated observations may be presumed. 
  - A rule of thumb was proposed (Snijders et al. 2010b) that Jaccard measures of similarity between successive waves preferably should be 0.3 or more.
- [Di Clemente et al. (2018)](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-05690-8#change-history) Sequences of purchases in credit card data reveal lifestyles in urban populations. In [Nature Communications](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=19700182758&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - In this work, we define a framework using a text compression technique on the sequences of credit card purchases to detect ubiquitous patterns of collective behavior. Clustering the consumers by their similarity in purchase sequences, we detect five consumer groups. Remarkably, post checking, individuals in each group are also similar in their age, total expenditure, gender, and the diversity of their social and mobility networks extracted from their mobile phone records.
  - With these meaningful samples, we can now measure the similarity between shopping behaviors among users. To that end, we decompose each significant word as direct links between its transaction codes. Each user is represented by a directed network, in the space of MCC, that collects all the links present in the user’s words. We then calculate the Jaccard similarity coefficient between all the users to compare the set of links in their networks (see the illustration of the method in Fig. [2b](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-05690-8#Fig2)).

- [Kobayashi et al. (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-08160-3). The structured backbone of temporal social ties. In [Nature Communications](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=19700182758&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - In many data sets, information on the structure and temporality of a system coexists with noise and non-essential elements. In networked systems for instance, some edges might be non-essential or exist only by chance. Filtering them out and extracting a set of relevant connections is a non-trivial task.
  - Given the differences in the definition of the various filters, it is important to understand to what extent these filters select distinct or similar sets of ties. We first quantify the similarity between backbones obtained by different filters through the Jaccard index [...]. 
- [Baccini et al. (2022)](https://www-sciencedirect-com.pucdechile.idm.oclc.org/science/article/pii/S1751157721000973?via%3Dihub). Similarity network fusion for scholarly journals. In [Journal of Informetrics](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=5100155103&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - This paper explores intellectual and social proximity among scholarly journals by using network fusion techniques. Similarities among journals are initially represented by means of a three-layer network based on co-citations, common authors and common editors. The information contained in the three layers is then combined by building a fused similarity network. The fusion consists in an unsupervised process that exploits the structural properties of the layers. 
  - In order to synthesize the information contained in the multilayer network for each discipline, i.e. in order to collapse the multilayer network into a single network, we adopt the technique based on the Similarity Network Fusion (SNF) [...]. SNF is an unsupervised method that can be used in many different application fields when several measurements collected on a set of units need to be integrated and studied in terms of similarity [...].
  - In the present application of SNF, =3 layers were considered for each research field, i.e. economics, information and library sciences, and statistics. Hence, three similarity matrices were computed for each layer corresponding to CC, IA and IE. Each similarity matrix was implemented on the basis of the classical Jaccard similarity coefficient between sets [...].
- [Iori et al. (2015)](https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/271650/1-s2.0-S0165188914X00138/1-s2.0-S016518891400205X/main.pdf?X-Amz-Security-Token=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&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Date=20240220T195358Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=300&X-Amz-Credential=ASIAQ3PHCVTYRF6NFD6D/20240220/us-east-1/s3/aws4_request&X-Amz-Signature=6ccd7ac03997c261038b6a221525fe9498055939f098af723c7634e209f3a88c&hash=ef322e59afcac31ffece2f30ea51edf499a1130d8eefbe74acce87909d5ec5fc&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S016518891400205X&tid=spdf-a33a5796-3bfd-4a28-86a0-388e49fde54e&sid=e9eac6797dee064f058ae7a9d7e6311e8877gxrqa&type=client&tsoh=d3d3LXNjaWVuY2VkaXJlY3QtY29tLnB1Y2RlY2hpbGUuaWRtLm9jbGMub3Jn&ua=15115c5b5959520457&rr=85894c7cfd9810e3&cc=us) Networked relationships in the e-MID interbank market: A trading model with memory. In [Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=28976&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - In this paper, we introduce a model of interbank trading with memory. The memory mechanism is used to introduce a proxy of trust in the model. The key idea is that a lender, having lent many times to a borrower in the past, is more likely to lend to that borrower again in the future than to other borrowers, with which the lender has never (or has infrequently) interacted.
  - This memory mechanism introduces a certain degree of similarity in the network of transactions obtained at different time intervals $T_M$. It is possible to quantify this similarity through the weighted Jaccard index between any two of these networks, $net_1$ and $net_2$, obtained at different time intervals [...].
- [Lux (2015)](https://sci-hub.ru/10.1016/j.jedc.2014.09.038). Emergence of a core-periphery structure in a simple dynamic model of the interbank market. In [Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=28976&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - This paper studies a simple dynamic model of interbank credit relationships.
  - Also shown in the tables is the Jaccard index which is a measure of persistence of links over time: it is defined as the number of links that survive from one period to the next divided by all links that are observed in at least one of both periods.
- [Moreno-Monroy et al. (2021)](https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/272609/1-s2.0-S0094119021X00058/1-s2.0-S0094119020300139/main.pdf?X-Amz-Security-Token=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&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Date=20240220T200349Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=300&X-Amz-Credential=ASIAQ3PHCVTY5TDFTTYX/20240220/us-east-1/s3/aws4_request&X-Amz-Signature=baac1b9d991cd8b35ebfcfb251ab4220fdce8416a7e060c7a78f84605a5bc56c&hash=8494b7068c2ab6f699b1f7ad3ab8794a84e46e27ea3e8f38e71f7faeb732b75b&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S0094119020300139&tid=spdf-451e5751-5765-4edf-9f62-1c05f1cd45ed&sid=44f7febd1c8314415c3b5968429e21671801gxrqa&type=client&tsoh=d3d3LnNjaWVuY2VkaXJlY3QuY29t&ua=030e5c5b5959530605&rr=85895aebf88f0dd0&cc=cl). Metropolitan areas in the world. Delineation and population trends. In [Journal of Urban Economics](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=24406&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - This paper presents a novel method to delineate metropolitan areas – or functional urban areas (FUAs) – in the entire world and assesses their population trends.
  - This section describes an out-of-sample comparison of estimated metropolitan boundaries for Brazil and Indonesia. The comparison relies on the Jaccard index (Bellefon et al., 2019; Bosker et al., 2019), which gives a measure of the overlap between two sets of boundaries by comparing the size of their intersection to the size of their union. The Jaccard index is complemented with other measures used to compare the likeness of the two sets of boundaries in each country.
- [Niroomand et al. (2018)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ijfe.1673?casa_token=Jk5HnTZeA64AAAAA:KoHVByQIGGTCbJtsOnODl02xg3lzqYokE1yHgJ_B-yiP5xU6_wNgExfv_1cyKa3MKXr08sIeer-Sf6aNiw). A simple mathematical programming model for countries' credit ranking problem. In [International Journal of Finance and Economics](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=17332&tip=sid&clean=0).
  - This study proposes a new mathematical model that ranks the countries according to their investments. [...]. In addition, the accuracy of the obtained result is validated by comparing them with Moody's rating system (August 2016) using Jaccard similarity index.
- [Brück & Xu (2012)](https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/271678/1-s2.0-S0176268012X0003X/1-s2.0-S0176268012000390/main.pdf?X-Amz-Security-Token=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%3D&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Date=20240220T202642Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=300&X-Amz-Credential=ASIAQ3PHCVTYSTKMJFNC/20240220/us-east-1/s3/aws4_request&X-Amz-Signature=b5da214d276ea2be667ba66d81ac24730083d2af69007ee7ca43e1b5a04963b6&hash=cbc1936e4ab204a64e600f0fd9b6feddf3577f187073afbd6d8ce872c88235e5&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S0176268012000390&tid=spdf-e07591ed-842a-4394-b9ec-1f039ee43179&sid=e9eac6797dee064f058ae7a9d7e6311e8877gxrqa&type=client&tsoh=d3d3LXNjaWVuY2VkaXJlY3QtY29tLnB1Y2RlY2hpbGUuaWRtLm9jbGMub3Jn&ua=15115c5b5959510456&rr=85897c6ea86c2ca1&cc=us&kca=eyJrZXkiOiJVTThxYkFBeDhvQmJlMWZIQXcxZWh1R0V6ZXljOUJvNmowd205cnVib2RXM1R4U28yNWg5b1RVTDRJR0FINkExN2dVczBTQzdCdWp2dmlpTGQ5R21pVXJ6S0dLejFPMWtqL3g2dGxqa0pENndHUUluVmpzUi80SkxzOERjd3h3TzF5TEhkdGxjMDNGNUh6czF2RVhOdXV5V1lXLytJQW1naUtacERBMHRXZFR2QnpoMkJnPT0iLCJpdiI6IjgyNjYzZWE3YmYzZjE5ODY4OGYyYWRiYTU1MDk5MGJiIn0%3D_1708460947341). Who gives aid to whom and when? Aid accelerations, shocks and policies. In [European Journal of Political Economy](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=64461&tip=sid&clean=0)
  - We address the pitfalls of averaging by exploiting the longitudinal variation in aid to identify sudden and sharp increases in aid flows. Focusing on specific events, we test if aid accelerations correspond to policies and shocks in the recipient country. We find that positive regime changes and wars are significant predictors of aid accelerations. The results also suggest the presence of aid spill-overs, where neighbors of war-torn countries are almost as likely to experience large aid inflows. Disaggregating aid flows by donors, we find some indicative evidence for competing allocation rules among European donors.
  - While the underlying reasons (coordination failure, political interests etc.) for the competing behavior are unclear, it is possible to examine which countries allocate aid along similar rules by examining how often growth accelerations coincide between donors. A simple approach is to calculate the Jaccard index10 for the binary acceleration indicator and examine the resulting similarity matrix

#### Similaridad entre textos

- [Prakoso et al. (2021).](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2) Short text similarity measurement methods: a review. In [Soft Computing](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=28554&tip=sid&clean=0).

  - Short text similarity measurement methods play an important role in many applications within natural language processing. This paper reviews the research literature on short text similarity (STS) measurement method with the aim to (i) classify and give a broad overview of existing techniques; (ii) find out its strengths and weaknesses in terms of the domain the independence, language independence, requirement of semantic knowledge, corpus and training data, ability to identify semantic meaning, word order similarity and polysemy; and (iii) identify semantic knowledge and corpus resource that can be utilized for the STS measurement methods. Furthermore, our study also considers various issues such as the difference between the various text similarity methods and the difference between semantic knowledge sources and corpora for text similarity.
  - STS methods that fall into this category measure sentence similarity based on the character or string sequence that make the sentences. It does not rely on an external semantic net or corpus to do the similarity calculation.
  - Sultana and Biskri ([2018](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#ref-CR75)) propose [a] method by utilizing the N-grams of characters. N-grams are a subsequence of characters or words that are contained in a sentence or text. First, the method chunks the two sentences being compared into a combination of n-grams of characters with all the possible sizes of n (the maximum result can be achieved by trigram from the experiment). Then it puts the n-grams into a distance matrix for each sentence. A cell in the matrix contains the distance from an n-gram to another n-gram within a sentence. Finally, sentence similarity is measured using the Jaccard ([1901](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#ref-CR39)) between those two distance matrices.
  - The advantage of this method is that it can be used for any language and domain since it does not rely on semantic ontology or corpus collection. Even though it yields an encouraging result, this method possesses the limitation of not being able to detect passive sentences and semantically similar sentences. 
  - Sentence similarity can also be measured by comparing common terms that are shared by both sentences. The Jaccard index is a statistic used in understanding the similarities between sample sets. The measurement emphasizes the similarity between finite sample sets and is formally defined as the size of the intersection divided by the size of the union of the sample sets (Jaccard [1901](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#ref-CR39)). A similar approach is used by the Dice coefficient, but it uses a different calculation. The similarity is computed by counting the number of common words, multiplying it by two and dividing by the total number of terms in both sentences (Dice [1945](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#ref-CR27)). Salton et al. ([1975](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#ref-CR68)) introduce a vector space model that can be used for sentence similarity measurement. Sentences are transformed into sentence vectors in the vector space model as illustrated in Fig. [6](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00500-020-05479-2#Fig6).

- [Chandrasekaran & Mago (2021)](https://dl-acm-org.pucdechile.idm.oclc.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3440755). Evolution of Semantic Similarity—A Survey. In [ACM Computing Surveys](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=23038&tip=sid&clean=0).

  - Estimating the semantic similarity between text data is one of the challenging and open research problems in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP). The versatility of natural language makes it difficult to define rule-based methods for determining semantic similarity measures. To address this issue, various semantic similarity methods have been proposed over the years. 
  - This survey article traces the evolution of such methods beginning from traditional NLP techniques such as kernel-based methods to the most recent research work on transformer-based models, categorizing them based on their underlying principles as knowledgebased, corpus-based, deep neural network–based methods, and hybrid methods. 
  - Discussing the strengths and weaknesses of each method, this survey provides a comprehensive view of existing systems in place for new researchers to experiment and develop innovative ideas to address the issue of semantic similarity

- [Navigli & Martelli (2019)](https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/8516094B74E1B1A32EE64226B6E7C298/S1351324919000305a.pdf/an-overview-of-word-and-sense-similarity.pdf). An overview of word and sense similarity. In [Natural Language Engineering](https://www.google.com/search?q=Natural+Language+Engineering+journal+ranking&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).

  - Measuring the degree of semantic similarity between linguistic items has been a great challenge in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP), a sub-field of Artificial Intelligence concerned with the handling of human language by computers. Over the last two decades, several different approaches have been put forward for computing similarity using a variety of methods and techniques

  - However, before examining such approaches, it is crucial to provide a definition of similarity: what is meant exactly by the term ‘similar’?

  - In general, semantic similarity can be classified on the basis of two fundamental aspects. The first concerns the type of resource employed, whether it be a lexical knowledge base (LKB), that is, a wide-coverage structured repository of linguistic data, or large collections of raw textual data, that is, corpora. Accordingly, we distinguish between knowledge-based semantic similarity, in the former case, and distributional semantic similarity, in the latter. Furthermore, hybrid semantic similarity combines both knowledge-based and distributional methods. 

  - The second aspect concerns the type of linguistic item to be analysed, which can be:

    - words, which are the basic building blocks of language, also including their inflectional information.
    - word senses, that is, the meanings that words convey in given contexts (e.g., the device meaning vs. the animal meaning of mouse).
    - sentences, that is, grammatical sequences of words which typically include a main clause, made up of a predicate, a subject and, possibly, other syntactic elements.
    - paragraphs and texts, which are made up of sequences of sentences. 

    This paper focuses on the first two items, that is, words and senses, and provides a review of the approaches used for determining to which extent two or more words or senses are similar to each other, ranging from the earliest attempts to recent developments based on embedded representations.

  - Early distributional approaches aimed at capturing semantic properties directly between words depending on their distributions. To this end, different measures were proposed in the literature [p.e. Jaccard Index].

- [Shameem & Ferdous (2009)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/5340335?casa_token=9akKPYIK4j8AAAAA:zZD-poyuPwcQxQfP1fyY7BPiNa3dxWHPKXJNkyPGCBiTnIKrpv8uBjSAuWYWtt_VqG-w5wq0eIs). An efficient k-means algorithm integrated with Jaccard distance measure for document clustering. 

  - Document Clustering is a widely studied problem in Text Categorization. It is the process of partitioning or grouping a given set of documents into disjoint clusters where documents in the same cluster are similar. 
  - K-means, one of the simplest unsupervised learning algorithms, solves the well known clustering problem following a simple and easy way to classify a given data set through a certain number of clusters (assume k clusters) fixed a priori. The main idea is to define k centroids, one for each cluster. This clustering algorithm uses an iterative procedure which converges to one of numerous local minima. We have found that these iterative techniques are especially sensitive to initial starting conditions of the centroid of each cluster and the more the distance among the cluster centroid the better the clustering performance. In simple K-means algorithm the way to initialize the centroid is not specified and one popular way to start is to randomly choose k points of the samples as k centroids but this process does not guarantee to choose the maximum dissimilar documents as the centroid point for k-cluster. 
  - In this paper we proposed a modified k-means algorithm which uses Jaccard distance measure for computing the most dissimilar k documents as centroids for k clusters. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed K-means algorithm with Jaccard distance measure for computing the centroid improves the clustering performance of the simple K-means algorithm.

- A review of clustering techniques and developments. In [Neurocomputing](https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=24807&tip=sid&clean=0).

  - This paper presents a comprehensive study on clustering: exiting methods and developments made at various times.
  - The measures of similarities have been applied on millions of applications in clustering. In fact every clustering problem applies one of the similarity measures. The Euclidean distance is mostly applied to find similarity between two objects, which are expressed numerically. Euclidean distance is highly sensitive to noise and usually not applied to data with hundreds of attributes also features with high values tend to dominate others so it may be applied when translations of non-numeric objects to numeric values are almost nil or minimum. Jaccard similarity coefficient is suitable sufficiently to be employed in the documents or word similarity measurement. In efficiency measurement, the program performance can deal appropriately with high stability when failure and mistake spelling occurred. Nevertheless, this method is not able to detect the over-type words in the data sets. Pearson correlation is usually unable to detect the difference between two variables. Cosine similarity is also a good choice for document clustering, it is invariant to rotation but not to linear transformations.

